The last few videos, you see many references delayering, particularly in the video describing the four layer Internet.
Layering is very, very widely used principle, and has been used in networking for decades, predating the Internet.
In fact, layering is a design principle used widely outside networking as well.
It's commonly used as a design principle in
many, many types of computer
system. There are lots of reasons for layering, and we'll explore some of them.
In this video. We'll explore what layering is.
We'll look at some of the simple examples of layering in communication and computer systems, and we'll explain why so many systems are led either by natural circumstance or deliberately by design.
Let's start with the definition of layering.
Layering is the name we give to the organization of a system into a number of separate functional components, or layers.
The layers are hierarchical, and they communicate sequentially words.
Each layer has an interface only to the layer directly above and below.
Each layer provides a well defined service to the layer above using the services provided by layers below and its own private processing.
There are many examples of layering in everyday life, particularly when one service is deliberately or naturally laid on top of another.
E.g., if you're looking for airplane tickets, you might visit a visit a brokerage website, such as Google Flights, hipmunk or Kayak.
These websites let you find tickets across a wide range of airlines by communicating with a single service.
You could instead go to the website of every airline to query what tickets they have available.
The brokerage website is providing you a service layer on top of each airline, abstracting away the details of each airline's website for you.
Now, if we look under the covers of each airline, they fly different types of airplane over different routes.
The airplane takes care of the details of providing the service, and offers you the simple abstraction of a ticket valid for a particular flight to take you between two airports.
The hiding many other details too, such as how they provide the, uh, the awful suit food they serve.
In many cases, they have a number of suppliers to provide meals, drinks, fuel and so on.
Each of those are naturally hidden from us, the consumer.
This separation of concerns allows each layer in the hierarchy to focus on doing its job well and provide a well defined service to the layer above.
Another well known example of layering closer to the Internet is the postal service.
Imagine that I have a book that I want to send to fill.
I place the book in an envelope, add fills address and mine, and then handed over to Olive to take to the mailbox.
The postal service sorts the mail, then sends it by a variety of different means airplanes, mail trucks, trains, etc.
Until it reaches a sorting office near Phil.
The mailman delivers the letter to Phil, who opens it and finds the book inside.
The service is clearly layed at the top.
I don't care how the letters get from me to fill, whether they go by airplane, truck or hovercraft.
And I don't care about the the route that the book takes or how many sorting offices it passes through along the way.
I don't mind whether Olive walk skips bicycles or runs to the mailbox.
I don't care which mail box she posts the lettering.
I want the lower layers to abstract away the details for me, provide, providing me with a simple service model.
I put the book in an envelope, and the layers below deliver it to fill in turn.
Olive doesn't need to know how the postal service delivers the letter.
She simply communicates with a layer below by posting the letter.
Phil just wants the book notice that each layer communicates only with the layers above and below.
If the postal service deploys new trains or starts using a different airline freight service, phil and I don't need to know about it.
In other words, because communication is simply up and down.
With a well defined interface between layers, we can improve each layer independently over time.
E.g., if I want faster, guaranteed delivery, I could handle the envelope to a carrier such as DHL or Fedex.
The interface is almost the same.
I simply give them an envelope and money layering is deliberately designed to many computer systems.
When we write programs, this is T-Y editing, a program.
We create source code using a language that abstracts away the details of the operating system, have virtual memory works, and have the low level details of the hardware.
Okay, so c is in great hiding the details, but many other languages, such as Java and Python, deliberately show us from how the lower layers.
As a programmer, we communicate with the layer below the compiler by handing at our source code, the compilers a self contained, functional component that was responsible for several tasks such as lexical analysis, parsing our code, pre processing declarations
and cogenerous generation. Is optimization. The compiler generates object code, which then it then passes to the linger.
The linker links together the compiled object files of libraries.
It generates an execuable file, the CPU real, a virtual then executes the coat.
If you have experience writing computer programs,
the benefits of layering are fairly
clear. In this example, larry breaks down the overall problem of writing programs that execute on hardware into modules or functional components, each with a well defined role and providing a well defined service to the layer above.
It also provides a clear separation of concerns.
The compiler can focus on lexical analysis, parsing and so on.
The linker can focus on efficiently piecing objects together.
Neither has to worry about the job of the other, and each can be improved, upgraded and replaced over time as technology and know how progresses.
E.g. we might swap out a commercial sea compiler with G-C-C, or vice versa, without needing to change the linker or the language we use.
When Nick 1st dropped to be slides, I was excited that he put compilers in as an example of layering, the great example of both the benefits of layering as well as how sometimes you need to break layering despite the very negative consequences.
So let's take the sea programming language as an example.
Generally speaking, a piece of sea code can be compelled for almost any processor.
We can take sea code, like this statement, I plus plus, and compel it for an arm processor and a phone, an x 8664 plus cern, a laptop, are micro controller and ultramotar dishwasher.
In this way, the sea code is hardware independent, and so it keeps the layer in here.
But sometimes we need our Seacoat to do something special that only our processor can do, e.g.
an XV six 64 processor has all kinds of special instructions that a micro controller doesn't see.
Allows you to include a suppli code directly.
Software like operating system kernels such as Linux and Windows uses for some of those lowests level implementations.
The layering that sea provides hides this detail, so it doesn't let you do so directly, but you have to do so to achieve your goal.
So Oyce kernels include assembly code doing so.
This means that the code is no longer layer independent the Linux context, which assembly written for Arm only works for Arm, so you have to write a version of this code for each layer.
If Linux wants to run in a new processor, developers need to write new assembly code for that processor.
So this is a great example, because they chose the benefits of layers that separate concerns in simplifier system, just as programming seas easier than assembly.
But sometimes you have to break the layer boundaries.
Doing so has a huge cost.
Suddenly you are no longer independent the lower layer, greatly limiting flexibility.
So sometimes you have to do it, but do so only when you really, really have to.
As we'll see, a lot of the practical operational challenges in the Internet today result from people breaking layering and assuming things above and below their service interface.
There's a continual tension to improve the Internet by making cross layer optimizations, and the resulting loss of flexibility.
We'll see. One really telling example of this was something called NATS, or NETWORKRA, Network address translators, tremendously useful devices that have, unfortunately made it almost impossible to add new transport particles to the Internet.
So in summary, there are five main reasons we use layering in computer systems.
Modularity. It breaks down the system into smaller, more manageable modules.
The well defined service. Each layer provides a well defined service to the layer above.
3rd reuse a layer above can rely on all the hard work put in by others to implement the layers below.
It saves us the time to write each layer whenever we build a new system.
4th separation of concerns. Each layer can focus on its own job without having to worry about how other layers do theirs.
The only communication is up and down the layers, so it helps keep one layers processing in data local an internal where possible, minimizing the complex interactions between layers.
5th it allows the a continuous improvement of each function.
6th 6th benefit is specific to lead communication systems such as the Internet, that is pier to peer communications.
In the four layer Internet model, we saw how well each layer communicates with its peer on another system, using the delivery service provided by it provided by the le layers below.